blog: a simpler than ever strategy (#5304)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/helping-engineers-to-product.md

---
date: 2023-02-16

> title: "CEO diary: Helping engineers to be better at product"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Our new goal: Helping engineers to be better at product"
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
category: CEO diaries
author: ["james-hawkins"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-ceo-diary-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

> One of the things I've learned at PostHog, is the simpler a strategy, the more likely it's the right one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the things I've learned at PostHog is the simpler a strategy, the more likely it's the right one.
```

We simplified [our strategy](../handbook/strategy/overview) recently. This post explains the context.

## The change

Our company mission has always been to increase the number of successful products in the world.

> The change is that we've realized that the simple way PostHog can achieve this is to help engineers be better at product.

Author: dislike this phrasing more than original!

Our competitors near universally focus on helping non-technical product managers, who write tickets for their developers.

We think this is backwards. Look at the way most teams work on tickets today:

* Endless alignment
* Endless requirements gathering
* Endless handoffs (design/product/engineering/sales/marketing/support)

If we reduce the need for PMs and help engineers go further by themselves, we reduce time lost on the above activities. Moreover, the best engineers usually want to work for companies where they get more autonomy.

## What's the strategy then?

### Provide every tool needed for evaluating feature success

The best use of an engineer's time is to ship features that have an impact on customers. Currently, this requires a large number of tools and product managers to pull all the insights together. By integrating all these tools we can make this easy – no integration needed, no extra vendors, no extra javascript, and workflows to guide engineers through feature development, from initial idea, to release, measurement, gathering qualitative data, and back to the start.

### Get in first

> By already being used by our customers, we’re the default for each additional tool they add. It’s the technical co-founder and early engineers building the MVP and integrating the first product tools, not PMs. By focusing on engineers we can be their preferred choice and get in first. Additionally, we can ladder our tools – for example, session recording is used much earlier in the life cycle of the product than others like the CDPs helping us get in earlier than competing products. As a result, we aren't heavily focused on enterprise – we even [sunsetted K8s support](sunsetting-helm-support-posthog) as part of this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s the technical co-founder and early engineers building the MVP and integrating the first product tools, not PMs. By focusing on engineers we can get in first, and later become the default choice for each additional tool they add. 

Additionally, we can ladder our tools – session recording is used much earlier in the life cycle of the product than others, like the customer data platforms (CDP), helping us get in earlier than competing products. As a result, we aren't heavily focused on enterprise – we even [sunsetted K8s support](sunsetting-helm-support-posthog) as part of this change.
```

One small thought. In our announcement we mainly framed the sunsetting as related to support needs, but this (slightly) contradicts that. Does this matter? It's probably ok imo, more of an FYI.

Next quarter, we'll be working on our CDP – we want to make that a first class citizen product – like our analytics or session recording. Today, we have 50+ "apps", largely community-driven, that mainly integrate PostHog with other data sources, but we want to add more integrations, deepen their functionality, improve their reliability, and make them more intuitive to use.

It's not all product: 

- In our growth team, we made a lot of progress last year on conversion to revenue, which grew 6x, but we're now looking at ways to give away as much as we can, for free, to _get in first_. 

- In our customer success team, we're getting more targeted in our approach so we focus on high-growth companies.

- In marketing, we aim to produce the best content on the internet for each piece that we write. We're moving paid ad spend to hire another writer, we're producing more tutorials than ever before, and we're focusing more of our writing more tightly on how to help engineers learn skills outside of coding.

## I'm excited

> Ali, on our board, told us "when you get bigger, you can see around corners". That turns out to be true. Now we've tried a bunch of stuff, we have 23,000+ companies who have installed PostHog and approaching 70,000 developers in the community, we can clearly see what we need to do. And, seeing the results we've had so far, increases our confidence we can make it all happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ali, on our board, told us "when you get bigger, you can see around corners". That turns out to be true. Now we've tried a bunch of stuff achieved product-market fit – we have 23,000+ companies who have installed PostHog and approaching 70,000 developers in the community – we can clearly see what we need to do. And, seeing the results we've had so far, increases our confidence we can make it all happen.
```

Author: don't think your edi tmakes sense, want to clarify?

Reviewer: Oh, there's a missing 'and' – i.e:

> Now we've tried a bunch of stuff and achieved product-market fit – we have 23,000+ companies who have installed PostHog and approaching 70,000 developers in the community – we can clearly see what we need to do
